Now that we've taken a look at how you can work with Docker Compose YAML
files and some of the different commands you can run,
let's walk through setting up a more robust development environment,
talk about some of the different Dockerfiles involved,
and then look at the custom YAML file and how we can actually run it.
So earlier,
I talked about this type of environment where we have Nginx on the front end.
It can then route to multiple Node.js processes that could be running.
And then Node can integrate with MongoDB and cache some data in Redis.
Now obviously, in a development environment,
you probably don't need multiple Node instances.
But I'm going to show you how you could do it just so you
see the setup and how it all works.
So let's go ahead and jump over to a code demonstration
here. And what I'm going to do is,
rather than typing it all out, because we've already seen the YAML file,
we've seen Dockerfiles, I'm going to talk through the setup,
walk you through the basics in this particular section.
And then in the upcoming sections,
we'll look more deeply at the YAML file and then start to run it
and get this environment going. And you're going to see it's
actually extremely easy to get going.
That's what's so exciting again to me about Docker.
So let's jump on over here.
All right, so this is a project that has all these different
services that I need to have in place, the Nginx,
the Node, the Mongo, the Redis.
And so what I've done here is I have a .docker folder.
Now this is my own name.
You can certainly choose whatever you want here. But
inside of it, I have my custom Dockerfiles.
So I have one for Mongo, for instance.
We'll talk through the basics of this.
Here's Nginx.
Here's my Node, and then here's my Redis. Now these are pretty standard.
There's a few things I'll point out and call to your
attention. But out of the box, I'm really just grabbing from the latest Mongo.
I'm running a couple custom commands.
It turns out that the debian:wheezy image of this is based upon,
didn't have a particular feature I needed,
at least at the time,
which is at the time I'm recording this, and it's called netcat. So I had to
actually do an apt‑get, which is one way on a Linux machine that you can go
grab different tools and download them dynamically.
So I'm going to do that.
And then I'm going to run some custom Mongo scripts and copy them in.
Now, in this case, when Mongo runs,
I need to supply some username and password‑type
information. And out of the box, you don't get that.
You can supply some basic stuff,
but I need to supply obviously my admin password and username. And then
the web that's going to hit it needs a web account.
So the Node application needs to be able to call it
with a specific account as well.
And this is all done with some different sh or shell scripts here.
And so you'll notice I'm calling this run.sh. And in a nutshell,
what I'm doing is kicking off a little bit of scheduling for backups,
which, again, in the dev world you probably don't need.
But in this particular case, I could use this in a production mode if I wanted.
And then I kick off some other things, like this first run. And
this is where I use environment variables.
And this is how, in this case, a shell script how we can get to some
environment variables that are being set. Now these are going to be
loaded through this mongo.development.env.
And so you'll notice in here, this is an environment variables file.
You're going to see this as we get into the Docker Compose file,
which is back down here.
But I I can supply the environment.
I can supply the Mongo type of functionality for the username and password.
And these scripts take care of applying all of this
information to the actual MongoDB database.
So that's really what this guy does.
The entry point runs this custom script,
and that kicks off getting the username and
passwords all updated in the database.
That way, I can truly do authenticated calls from the web app.
Now the Nginx also does a little bit of extra stuff.
First off, I have a configuration file. And if you're not familiar with Nginx,
it's a reverse proxy. And it's something that,
as was shown in the diagram earlier,
it could be hit first on port 80 for instance. And then it
could forward dynamic calls that Node needs to handle or
whatever your server is on the back end to,
in this case, the Node process.
But for the static resources, and this would be your CSS,
your JavaScript, your images,
things like that, I really don't need to hit a back‑end process for that.
Why not just let a really efficient server, like Nginx, serve those up?
And that's what I'm going to do.
So this has the configuration for this proxy server,
and so it's actually going to configure a few things.
If I go into config, nginx, you'll notice in here if I scroll on down,
we have this little node‑upstream. And don't feel like you
need to understand this if you're new to it,
because, quite honestly,
you could just go to their documentation, copy and
paste some samples, and tweak them.
But I wanted to just point out that I actually set up a
node1, node2, and node3. So when a request comes in to
Nginx, if a dynamic call is required,
in other words it wasn't a static resource like a CSS file,
then it can route it into one of these Node instances. Now as mentioned earlier,
it's not like you need three Node instances in development.
But maybe you want to simulate a production type of
scenario and do some testing.
Well, it's pretty easy to do that.
That's kind of why I set this up.
So that's really all I want to point out.
You'll see that these are running on port 8080, and these are going to be
three containers that ultimately will run behind the scenes.
Now the rest of this,
if I go back to the Dockerfile for Nginx, is I actually copy the public
resources. This is the static resources. If we jump over here to
public, css, img, and js. So I'm actually copying that up into the
container that's going to run for Nginx, and that way it can handle
serving that. I do a little bit with certificates in case you want to
play around with SSL.
These are self‑signed certificates so they wouldn't be used for
production. And then I kick it off down here by running the
Nginx command that you see right here.
So that's that Dockerfile.
I also have one for Node. This one's pretty basic.
It does a little bit of an install as far as npm install, installs something
called pm2. This is a process monitor that'll monitor our server process for all
the Node instances. And if the server process dies,
it'll restart it.
Or if I change the code, it can restart it.
And that's a real nice thing to have obviously in development mode.
And then finally, I have the Redis image.
And really all I'm doing here is copying again some configuration file info,
and that again is located up in this config.
You'll see Redis. And all I'm doing here is supplying
a password for the caching server.
Don't use that in production, but it's not bad for dev.
It's just password.
All right,
so that's a quick runthrough on the services that we're going to
have running and the Dockerfiles that are going to drive these
images and ultimately the containers.
And by using these,
you're going to see that we can make a Docker Compose file, and we'll be doing
that in the next section here, and then get that up and running very quickly and efficiently using the Docker Compose commands.